### Executive Summary
In this unit of IT1025 you will learn more about luicd charts and how to make diagrams. You will be introduced to netwroking. you will aslo learn more about cybersecurity and how it works and also encryption and how its used.

### Lucidchart
Messing around with lucid chart gave me more experince and knowledge about it. It showd me the differnt types of sysmbols and how they work and what they do. Seen many eexamples so i can get the habg of it. Leraend the many shortcuts and how to input different things to make charts.
### Introduction to Networking
#### Data Transmission 
Packet's is a unit of data that is transmitted over the internet. Each packet has the sender’s address, the destination address, a sequence number, and a piece of the overall message to be sent. Different packets in a single message can take a variety of routes to the destination and they can arrive at different times. Packet-switching is a technology that allows packets of data to be routed based on destination address. When any message packets are sent on the Internet ,routers try to find the optimal route for each packet. After the packet finds the destination the packets are re made to the original message for the recipient. Every device in the internet has a Unique identifying number aslo know has an IP address. An IP address has a format of four numbers with values ranging from 0 and 255 separated by a period. That is know as an IPV4 but after time passed the IPV4 wont be enough and will change to IPV6. The DNS is a directory of IP address common names. When a request to access a host with a domain name is given the DNS server is queried. An Example of a DNS is, 54.239.26.214 might be the IP address of amazon.com.The gives back the IP adress that the host requested. A protcol is a the set of rules that control how communications take place on a network. A example of a protcol is a File Transfer Protocol (FTP) are the communication rules for transferring files from one host to another.
#### Network Hardware
A switch is similar to a hub but its more intelligent. A hub just knows only when you plug in a cable to the port. But a switch can learn and understand the physical address of the device that's connected to it. The address's that they store into it is called a MAC address. When a data packet is sent to a switch it is directed to the intended destination port. Unlike the Hub which directs it to all 4 of the ports. An example of a switch is if 2 computers wanted to communicate to each other the computer send the data to a switch and teh switch finds the mac address to the recipient computer and sends the data just to that computer, unlike a hub which sends it to all the computers. Hubs and switches are used to exchange data within a local area netwrok such is a home netwrok or in a business. They can't exchange data outside of thier own network. A router is a device that routes or forwards data from one netwrok to another. A hub and a switch can't read IP address  so they can't exchange data outide of thier network. A router can read IP address so that's when it comes to help. If you want data from other networks then you need a router which has the capabilities of doing it when a hub and a switch can't.
#### Network Topologies
A topology is the layout of how a network communicates with different devices. The downside of a star topology is if the central hub or switch then all the computers on that central point would be affected this is known as a single point of failure. The main topology that experiences a single point of failure is a star topology. An infrastructure topology uses a combination of wired and wireless devices. The computers in an infrastructure are physically connected to a switch. A infrastructure also has a wireless access point that is connected to the switch which is used for wireless devices. A wireless mesh topology is simialr to a wired mesh topology. Where devices are interconnected with each other but with an exception that they are wirelessly interconnected. In my opinion i think the wireless mesh topology is better because they send data wirelessly which means less cables and less money and time to add the cables.
#### Network Design
In my network diagram i used 3 differnt aspects. I used the router because the internet needs a router to send data in and out i have the switch connected to the router because the switch isn't capable of receiving data out of its network later the switch gives out the data to all 4 of the computers that are connected to the switch.
#### NSA/CSS
The NSA works with other agencies to recognize cyber threats, develop solutions, and protect information storage and transmission. They use many different resources and techniques to cope with risk in the cybersecurity field.
### Cybersecurity and Encryption 
#### Information Systems Security 
The first component of the security traid is confidentiality. If i worked at amazon this would affect my job by me not giving inofrmation about to company to people who can't obtain the information. For example if amazon was working on a new project and i'm part of the team and the company hasn't made the new project public i can't go home and tell my family or friends. The second part of the Security triad is integrity. Integrity is the assurance that the information being accessed has not been altered and truly represents what is intended. for example if i worked at amazon i can't go onto a customers account and order stuff that the customer hasn't ordered or change any documents from the original. The last part of the Security triad is availability. Availability means information can be accessed and modified by anyone authorized to do so in an appropriate timeframe. This part could affect my job when i wanna see a report or document at amazon i would have to see the timeframe of the servers to see when i can access those documents. Three daily tasks that require authentication is unlocking your phone, clocking in for work or using a debit card to make a purchase. Unclocking your phone can have a multi facotr authentication by having to scan your fingerprint and using a password. A mulit-factor authentication for clocking in can be using a fingerprint scanner and a employee id number. A multi-factor authentication for using a debit card is a pin for the card and and the user id. The ACl and RBAC are two common access control they determines which users are authorized to read, modify, add, and delete information. The advantage of ACl is that it is easy to understand and maintain. And a disadvantage of ACL is that each information resource is managed separately. if a security administrator wanted to add or remove a user to a large set of information resources, that would be a problem because as the number of the users increase it will be more complicated to maintian the ACl. An advantage of a RBAC is it allows the administrators to manage users and roles separately, makeing it easier for administration and improving security. The ciphertext is information that has been encoded so authorized people can't see it. A public key is a key that also encodes the data and the private key is the key that decodes the data so that the authorized person can see the information. The reason we need cryptography is for to keep hacker or unauthorized people to obtain the information that they can't obtain.
#### Cryptography 
The encryption is that the message i put can only been seen if i had the wheel in the right position. If someone who didn't have the wheel in the right position would just see random letters that can't make a word but if i gave someone the encryption code which is AA1 they can see the message that i wrote.In the frequency Fingerprint box the bars increase by how many letters were used in the message. It wouldn't be differnt for different language because someone can interpret how many letters for used to make the message. A Polyalphabetic cipher is a way to encrypt a message by converting the words into numbers according to the letter position in the alphabet. Each letter is encrypted by shifting according to the ltter below it. After encrypting the message it displays as random letters that can't be seen if the person doesn't have the shift key.
#### Brute-Force
A brute-force attack tries every possible decryption key for a cipher. Kerckhoff's priciple doesn't relate because to make the cipher secure the person can't know thw cispher key and Kerckoffs states that even if someone knows the cispher key the code must still be secure.

### Summary
In this unit we learned many different things in IT1025. We learned about the lucidchart website and made examples of a flow chart. We were introduced to netwroking and how data is transmitted. I also learned about the netwrok hardware and which one is better to use. also learned about the many different topology. I also learned about the NSA and what they do. Now im more familiar about cybersecurity and encryption.




 
